# 1. Hartree-Fock `SCF` computation for water molecule using `cc-pVDZ` basis set
<font color="73DB90" size="4">

1. We will specify the geometry of our water molecule using standard X-matrix.

</font>

## 1.1. 输入文件
```dat
# filename: input.dat
# Any line starting with the `#` is a comment line
# Sample HF/cc-pVDZ H2O computation

memory 600 mb

molecule h2o {
    O
    H 1 0.96
    H 1 0.96 2 104.5
}

set basis cc-pVDZ
energy('scf')
```

## 1.2. 运行
```shell
# 运行计算程序
# input.dat: 指定输入文件
# output.dat: 指定输出文件
linux > psi4 input.dat output.dat
```

## 1.3. 结果分析
```shell
# If everything goes well, the computation should complete and should report a final restricted Hartree-Fock energy in a section like this:
linux > grep "Final Energy" output.dat
  @DF-RHF Final Energy:   -76.02663273509026
```

<font color="red" size="4">

1. By default, the energy should be converged to about `1E-6`, so agreement is only expected for about the first 6 digits after decimal. If the computation does not complete, there is probably a problem with the compilation or installation of porgram.
2. This very simple input is sufficient to run the requested information. Notice that we didn't tell the program some otherwise useful information:
    - the charge on molecule (0, it's neural)
    - the spin multiplicity (1 for closed-shell molecule with all electrons paired)
    - the reference wavefunction to use (restricted `Hartree-Fock`, or `RHF`, is usually appropriate for closed-shell molecule)
3. The program correctly guessed all of these options for us. 
4. We can `change the default behavior through additional keywords`.

</font>



# 2. Hartree-Fock calculation for an `open-shell` molecule, where not all electrons are paired
<font color="73DB90" size="4">

1. For example, let's run a computation on `methylene(CH2)`, whose ground electronic statehas two unpaired electrons (triplet electionic state, or a spin multiplicity `2S + 1 = 3`). In this case, the default spin multiplicity(`1`) is not correct, so we need to tell the program the true value (`3`).
2. Like many programs, `PSI4` can get the `charge` and `multiplicity` as the first two integers in the `Z-matrix`. Note the line with `0 3` at the beginning of the molecule specification below.
3. In this example we will also specify the `bond length` and `bond angle` as `variables` (`R` and `A`), whose values are given at the end of the `Z-matrix` specification.

</font>

## 2.1. 输入文件
```dat
# filename: input.dat
# Sample UHF/6-31G** CH2 computation

molecule ch2 {
    0 3
    C
    H 1 R
    H 1 R 2 A

    R = 1.075
    A = 133.93
}

set basis 6-31G**
set reference uhf
energy('scf')
```

## 1.2. 结果分析
```shell
linux> psi4 input.dat output.dat
  @DF-UHF Final Energy:   -38.92533462894364
```

<font color="red" size="4">

Note
----
1. Notice we added a new keyword, `set reference uhf`, to the input. 
2. For `open-shell molecules`, we have a choice of `unresticted orbitals`(unrestricted Hartree-Fock, or `UHF`), or restricted orbitals(restricted open-shell Hartree-Fock, `ROHF`). Usually, `UHF` is a little easier to converge (although it may be more susceptible to spin contamination than `ROHF`)

</font>


# 3. `Geometry Optimization` and `Vibrational Frequency` Analysis
<font color="73DB90" size="4">

1. The above examples were simple `single-point energy` computations (as specified by the `energy()` function).
2. Of course there are other kinds of computations to perform, such as `geometry optimizations` and `vibrational frequency` computations.
3. These can be specified by replacing `energy()`:
    - `optimize()`
    - `frequency()`

</font>

## 3.1. An example of `optimizing` the `H2O` molecule using Hartree-Fock with `cc-pVDZ` basis set

### 3.1.1. 输入文件
```dat
# filename: input.dat
# Optimize H2O HF/cc-pVDZ

molecule h2o {
    O
    H 1 0.96
    H 1 0.96 2 104.5
}

set basis cc-pVDZ
optimize('scf')
```

### 3.1.2. 结果分析

<font color="73DB90" size="4">

1. This operation will perform a series of gradient computations. The gradient points which way is downhill in energy, and the optimizer then modifies the geometry to follow the gradient. 
2. After a few cycles, the geometry should converge with a message like `Optimization is complete!`. 
3. As indicated following output table, the `energy` decrease with each step, and the `maximum force on each atom` also decreases with step. (In principle these numbers could increase in some iterations, but here they do not).

</font>

```shell
# 运行计算程序
linux > psi4 input.dat output.dat
# 查看计算是否完成
linux > grep "Optimization is complete!" output.dat
  **** Optimization is complete! (in 3 steps) ****
# 查看每一步优化详情
linux > grep '~$' output.dat
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ~
   Step     Total Energy     Delta E     MAX Force     RMS Force      MAX Disp      RMS Disp    ~
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ~
    Convergence Criteria    1.00e-06 *    3.00e-04 *             o    1.20e-03 *             o  ~
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ~
      1     -76.02663274   -7.60e+01      1.52e-02      1.25e-02 o    2.74e-02      2.28e-02 o  ~
      2     -76.02702267   -3.90e-04      1.79e-03      1.43e-03 o    1.01e-02      5.95e-03 o  ~
      3     -76.02703273   -1.01e-05      1.40e-04 *    8.49e-05 o    7.75e-04 *    4.47e-04 o  ~
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ~
   Step         Total Energy             Delta E       MAX Force       RMS Force        MAX Disp        RMS Disp  ~
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ~
      1     -76.026632735125    -76.026632735125      0.01523518      0.01245755      0.02742222      0.02277529  ~
      2     -76.027022666022     -0.000389930898      0.00178779      0.00142945      0.01008136      0.00594927  ~
      3     -76.027032729375     -0.000010063353      0.00014019      0.00008488      0.00077463      0.00044738  ~
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ~
```


# 3.2. Harmonic vibrational frequencies
<font color="73DB90" size="4">

1. To get `harmonic vibrational frequencies`, it's important to keep in mind that the values of the `vibrational frequencies` are a funtion of `molecular geometry`.
2. <font color="red">Therefore, it's important to obtain the `vibrational frequencies` at the `OPTIMIZED GEOMETRY`</font>.
3. We could set up a second input file to perform the `vibrational frequency` analysis, being very careful to copy over the optimized geometry `from the bottom of the output file for the geometry optimization`.
4. This geometry could be specified in either `z-matrix` or `Cartasian formats`.
5. However, there's a much easier way to do this. If we specifiy a vibrational frequency analysis in the same input files as the optimization, after the optimization function has been called, then the optimizaed geometry will automatically be carried over.

</font>

### 3.2.1 输入文件
```dat
# filename: input.dat
# Optimization followed by frequencies H2O HF/cc-pVDZ

molecule h2o {
    O
    H 1 0.96
    H 1 0.96 2 104.5
}

set basis cc-pVDZ
optimize('scf')
scf_e, scf_wfn = frequencies('scf', return_wfn=True, dertype=1)
```

### 3.2.2 结果分析

<font color="73DB90" size="4">

1. The program will do the same optimization as in our previous example, but then it will follow it with some computation to obtain the Hessian (second derivative matrix) of the electronic energy with respect to nuclear displacement, From this, it can obtain the harmonic vibrational frequencies, given below (roundoff errors of around 0.1 cm-1 may exist):

</font>

```shell
# 运行程序
linux > psi4 input.dat output.dat

# 结果分析
linux > grep "Freq [cm^-1]" output.dat
  Vibration                       7                   8                   9           
  Freq [cm^-1]                1775.6615           4113.3736           4212.1816       
  Irrep                           A1                  A1                  B2   
```


<font color="73DB90" size="4">

1. Notice that the `symmetry of the normal modes` is specified (`A1`, `A1`, `B2`). The program also prints out the normal modes in terms of Cartesian coordinates of each atom. For example, the normal mode at 1776 cm-1 is:

</font>

```shell
linux > grep 1775.6615 output.dat

```

<font color="73DB90" size="4">

1. Because the vibrational frequencies are available, a thermodynamic analysis is automatically performed at the end of the computation. You can see this in the next section of output file. The vibrational frequencies are sufficient to obtain vibrational contributions to `enthalpy (H)`, `entropy (S)` and `Gibbs free energy (G)`. Similarly, the molecular geometry is used to obtain rotational constants, which are then used to obtain rotational contributions to `H`, `S`, and `G`.

</font>



# 4. Analysis of Intermolecular Interactions

<font color="73DB90" size="4">

1. `Psi4` contains code to analyze the nature of intermolecular interactions between two molecules, via `symmetry-adapted perturbation theory (SAPT)`. This kind of analysis gives a lot of insight into the nature of intermolecular interactions.
2. For a `SAPT` computation, the input needs to provide information on two distinct molecules. This is very easy, we just give a `Z-matrix` or set a `Cartesian coordiantes` for each molecule, and seperate the two with two dashes, like below:

</font>

```dat
# filename: input.dat
# Example SAPT computation for ethene*ethine (*ie.*, ethylene*acetylene)
# test case 16 from the S22 database

molecule dimer {
0 1
C  0.000000 -0.667578 -2.124659
C  0.000000  0.667578 -2.124659
H  0.923621 -1.232253 -2.126185
H -0.923621 -1.232253 -2.126185
H -0.923621  1.232253 -2.126185
H  0.923621  1.232253 -2.126185
--
0 1
C  0.000000  0.000000  2.900503
C  0.000000  0.000000  1.693240
H  0.000000  0.000000  0.627352
H  0.000000  0.000000  3.963929
units angstrom

}


# second half of the input
set {
  basis jun-cc-pVDZ
  scf_type DF
  freeze_core True
}

energy('sapt0')
```

<font color="red" size="4">

Note
----
1. Because we have a few more options now, it's convenient to place them together into `set` block, bounded by `{...}`. This will set all of these options as `global` option. 
2. If an option needs to be visible only to one part of the program (e.g. we only want to increase the energy convergence in the SCF code, but not the rest of the code), it can be placed in a section of input visible to that part of the program (e.g., `set scf e_convergence 1.0E-8`)
3. Back to our `SAPT` example, we have found that for basic-level SAPT computations (ie., `SAPT0`), a good error cancellation is found with the `jun-cc-pVDZ` basis (this is teh usual `aug-cc-pVDZ` basis, but without diffuse functions on hydrogen and without diffuse d functions on heavy atoms). So we'll use that as our standard basis set. 
4. The `SAPT` code is designed to use density fitting techniques, because they introduce minimal errors while providing much faster computations. Since we're using density fitting for the `SAPT`, we might as well also use it for the `Hartree-Fock` computation  that are performed as part of the `SAPT`. We can specify that with `scf_type DF`
5. Density fitting procedures requires the use of auxiliary basis sets that pair with the primary basis set. Fortunately, `Psi4` is usually smart enough to figure out what auxiliary basis set are needed for a given computation. In this case, jun-cc-pVDZ is a standard enough basis set (just a simple truncation of the very popular `aug-cc-pVDZ` basis set) that `Psi4` correctly guesses that we want the `jun-cc-pVDZ-JKFIT` axiliary basis for the `Hartree-Fock`, and the `jun-cc-pVDZ-RI` basis set for the `SAPT` procedure.
6. To speed up the computation a little, we also tell the `SAPT` procedure to freeze the core electrons with `freeze_core True`. The `SAPT` procedure is invoked with the simple, `energy('sapt0')`. 
7. `energy('sapt0')`: This call knows to automatically run two monomer computations and a dimer computation and then use these results to perform the `SAPT` analysis. The various energy componenets are printed at the end of the output, in addition to the total `SAPT0` interaction energy. 
8. For now, we'll note that most of the `SAPT` energy components are negative; this means those are attractive contributions. (The zero of energy in `SAPT` computation is defined as non-interacting monomers). The exchange contributions are positive (repulsive).
9. In this example:
  - The most attractive contribution between ethylene and acetylene is an `elecrostatic term` of `-2.12 kcal*mol-1`. 
  - The next most attractive contribution is the `Disp20` term (2nd order intermolecular dispersion, which looks like an `MP2` in which one excitation is placed on each monomer), contributing an attractive of -1.2 kcal*mol-1.
10. It is not surprising that electronstatic contribution is dominant, because the geomatry chosen for this example has the acetylene perpendicular to the ethlyene, with the acetylene hydrogen pointing directly at double bond in ethlyene; this will be attractive because the `H atoms` in acetylene hydrogen pointing directly at the double bond in ethlyene; this will be attractive because the H atoms in acetylene bear a partial positive charge, while the electron-rich double bond in ethylene bears a partial negative charge. At the same time, the dispersion interaction should be similar bacause the perpendicular geometry does not allow much overlap between the monomers.
11. Hence, the `SAPT` analysis helps clarify(and quantify) our physical understanding about the interaction between the two monomers.

</font>