# 1. `ase.calculators.vasp.Vasp` 类
1. ASE interface for VASP, with the Calculator interface.

## 1.1. Parameters
<font color="73DB90" size="4">

Usage
-----
1. `atoms`: object
   - Attach an `atoms object` to the calculator
2. `label`: str <font color="red">(暂时没发现有啥用)</font>
   - Prefix for the output file, and sets the `working directorty`. Default is "vasp"
3. `directory`: str
   - Set the `working directory`. Is prepended to `label`
4. `restart`: str or bool <font color="red">(暂时没发现有啥用)</font>
   - Sets a `label` for the directory to load files from. 
   - if `restart=True`, the working directory from directory is used.
5. `txt`: bool, None, str or writable object
   - `txt = None`, output stream will be supressed
   - `txt = '-'` the output will be sent through stdout
   - `txt is a string`, a file will be opened, and the output will be sent to that file.
   - Finally, txt can also be a an output stream, which has a ‘write’ attribute.
   - `Default is 'vasp.out'`
```python
Vasp(label='mylabel', txt='vasp.out') # Redirect stdout
Vasp(txt='myfile.txt') # Redirect stdout
Vasp(txt='-') # Print vasp output to stdout
Vasp(txt=None)  # Suppress txt output
```
6. `command`: str
   - Custom instructions on `how to execute VASP`. Has priority over environment variables.

</font>

<font color="coral" size="4">

Basic calculator implementation
-------------------------------
1. `restart`: str
   - `Prefix for restart file`. May contain a directory. Default is None: don’t restart.
2. `ignore_bad_restart_file`: bool
   - `Deprecated`, please do not use. Passing more than one positional argument to Calculator() is deprecated and will stop working in the future. Ignore broken or missing restart file. By default, it is an error if the restart file is missing or broken.
3. `directory`: str
   - Working directory in which to read and write files and perform calculations.
4. `label`: str
   - Name used for all files. Not supported by all calculators. May contain a directory, but please use the `directory parameter` for that `instead`.
5. `atoms`: Atoms object
   - `Optional Atoms object` to which the calculator will be attached. When restarting, atoms will get its positions and unit-cell updated from file.

</font>


## 1.2. A selection of parameters
<font color="73DB90" size="4">

1. `directory`: str
   1. default: `.`
   2. Directory of the VASP run. Defaults to running in the current working directory.
2. `command`: str
   1. default: `None`
   2. Instructions on `how to execute VASP`. If this is `None`, either the `ASE_VASP_COMMAND`, `VASP_COMMAND`, or `VASP_SCRIPT` will be used (in that order).
3. `txt`: Various
   1. default: `vasp.out`
   2. Where to `redict the stdout text from the VASP execution`. Defaults to `vasp.out`. If it is set to a string, the file will always `be opened in folder specified by the directory keyword`.
4. `restart`: bool
   1. default: `None`
   2. <font color="red">`Restart old calculation` or `use ASE for post-processing`</font>
5. `xc`: str
   1. default: `'PW91'`
   2. XC-functional. `Defaults to None if gga set explicitly.`
6. `setups`: str
   1. default: `None`
   2. Additional setup option
7. `pp`: str 
   1. default: Set by `xc` or `gga`
   2. Pseudopotential (POTCAR) set used (LDA, PW91 or PBE).
8. `kpts`: various
   1. default: Gamma point
   2. k-points sampling
9. `gamma`: bool
   1. default: `None`
   2. gamma-point centered k-points sampling
10. `reciprocal`: bool <font color="red">(When explicitly listing the k-points, you must use it.)</font>
    1.  default: `None`
    2.  Use reciprocal units if k-points are specified explicitly
11. `charge`: int
   1. default: None
   2. Net charge per unit cell given in units of the elementary charge, as an alternative to specifying `nelect`. Note: The now-deprecated `net_charge` parameter worked just like this one but with the sign inverted.
12. `prec`: str
    1. Accuracy of calculation
13. `encut`: float
    1. Kinetic energy cutoff
14. `ediff`: float
    1.  Convergence break condination for `SC-loop`
15. `nbands`: int
    1.  Number of bands
16. `algo`: str
    1.  Electronic minimization algorithm
17. `ismear`: int
    1.  Type of smearing
18. `sigma`: float
    1.  Width of smearing
19. `nelm`: int
    1.  Maximum number of `SC-iterations`
20. `ldau_luj`: dict
    1.  LD(S)A+U parameters

</font>


<font color="coral" size="4">

Note
----
1. For parameters in the list without default value given, `VASP will set the default value`. 
2. `Most of the parameters used in the VASP INCAR file are allowed keywords.`
3. See the official `VASP manual` for more details. 
4. Input arguments specific to the `VTST add-ons for VASP` are also supported.

</font>

## 1.3. `Parameters can be changed` after the calculator has been constructed by using the `set()` method:
```python
# This would set the precision to Accurate and the break condition for the electronic SC-loop to 1E-5 eV.
cal.set(prec="Accurate",
      ediff=1E-5,
      )
```


# 2. Exchange-correlation functionals (这部分没记完整，后边细节直接去 https://wiki.fysik.dtu.dk/ase/ase/calculators/vasp.html#module-ase.calculators.vasp 看)
<font color="#73DB90" size="4">

1. The `xc` parameter is used to define a "recipe" of other parameters including the pseudopotential set `pp`. 
2. <font color="red">It is possible to `override any parameters set` with `xc` by setting them explicitly. </font>
3. For example, the screening parameter of a `HSE calculation` might be modified with:
```python
calc = ase.calculators.vasp.Vasp(
                           xc="hse06",
                           hfscreen=0.4,
                           )
```

</font>


# 3. Setups
## 3.1. Base `setups` (`dict`)
<font color="#73DB90" size="4">

1. For many elements, `VASP` is distributed with a choice of `pseudopotential setups`. 
2. These may be `hard/soft variants of the pseudopotential` or `include additional valence electrons`. Three base `setups` are provided:
   1. `minimal`: `(default)`
      1. If a `PAW folder` exists with `the same name as the element`, this will be used. For the other elements, the `PAW setup with the least electrons` has been chosen.
   2. `recommended`:
      1. corresponds to the table of recommended PAW setups supplied by the VASP developers.(https://www.vasp.at/wiki/index.php/Available_PAW_potentials#Recommended_potentials_for_DFT_calculations)
   3. `materialsproject`:
      1. corresponds to the Materials Project recommended PAW setups.(https://docs.materialsproject.org/)
   4. `gw`:
      1. corresponds to the table of recommended setups for GW supplied by the VASP developers.

</font>

## 3.2. More detail
<font color="73DB90" size="4">

1. Where elements are missing from the default sets, the `Vasp Calculator` will attempt to use a `setup` folder with the same name as the element. A default setup may be selected with the setups keyword:
```python
from ase.calculators.vasp import Vasp
calc = Vasp(setups='recommended')
```
2. To use an alternative setup for `all instances of an element`, use the dictionary form of setups to provide the characters which need to be added to the element name, e.g.
```python
# will use the Li_sv all-electron pseudopotential for all Li atoms.
calc = Vasp(xc='PBE', setups={'Li': '_sv'})
```
3. To apply `special setups` to `individual atoms`, identify them by their `zero-indexed number in the atom list `and use `the full setup name`. For example,
```python
calc = Vasp(xc='PBE', setups={3: 'Ga_d'})
```
4. These approaches may be combined by using the ‘base’ key to access a default set, e.g.
```python
calc = Vasp(xc='PBE', setups={'base': 'recommended', 'Li': '', 4: 'H.5'})
```

</font>


# 4. Spin-polarized calculation
<font color="#73DB90" size="4">

1. If the `atoms object` has `non-zero magnetic moments`, a spin-polarized calculation will be performed by default.
2. Here follows an example `how to calculate the total magnetic moment of a sodium chloride molecule`.
```python
from ase import Atoms, Atom
from ase.calculators.vasp import Vasp

a = [6.5, 6.5, 7.7]
d = 2.3608
NaCl = Atoms([Atom('Na', [0, 0, 0], magmom=1.928),
              Atom('Cl', [0, 0, d], magmom=0.75)],
             cell=a)
Nacl.pbs = True

calc = Vasp(prec='Accurate',
            xc='PBE',
            lreal=False,
            directory="./tmp"
            )
NaCl.calc = calc

print(NaCl.get_magnetic_moment())
```
3. In this example the `initial magnetic moments` are assigned to `the atoms` when defining the `Atoms object`. 
4. The calculator will detect that at least one of the atoms has a non-zero magnetic moment and a `spin-polarized calculation` will automatically be performed. 
5. The ASE generated `INCAR` file will look like:
```shell
INCAR created by Atomic Simulation Environment
 PREC = Accurate
 LREAL = .FALSE.
 ISPIN = 2
 MAGMOM = 1*1.9280 1*0.7500 
```
6. It is also possible to `manually` tell the calculator to `perform a spin-polarized calculation`:
```python
# This can be useful for continuation jobs, where the initial magnetic moment is read from the WAVECAR file.
calc.set(ispin=2)
```

</font>


# 5. Brillouin-zone sampling
<font color="73db90" size="4">

1. Brillouin-zone sampling is controlled by the parameters:
   - `kpts` 
   - `gamma`
   - `reciprocal`
2. and may also be set with the `VASP parameters`:
   - `kspacing`
   - `kgamma`

</font>

## 5.1. Single-parameter schemes (略，一般不用一个标量指定 `kpoints`)

## 5.2. Three-parameter scheme
<font color="73DB90" size="4">

1. In the ASE calculator, it is used by setting `kpts` to a sequence of three int values, e.g. `[2, 2, 3]`. 
   1. If `gamma` is set to `True`, the `mesh will be centred at the gamma-point`
   2. Otherwise, a `regular Monkhorst-Pack grid` is used, which may or may not include the `gamma-point`.
2. In VASP it is possible to `define an automatic grid` and `shift the origin point`. 
   - This function is not currently included in the ASE calculator. `The same result` can be achieved by using `ase.dft.kpoints.monkhorst_pack()` to generate an explicit list of k-points (see below) and simply adding a constant vector to the matrix. For example:
   - <font color="red">However, this method will prevent VASP from using symmetry to reduce the number of calculated points.</font>
```python
import ase.dft.kpoints

kpts = ase.dft.kpoints.monkhorst_pack([2,2,1]) + [0.25, 0.25, 0.5]
```
Output:
```shell
array([[ 0. ,  0. ,  0.5],
       [ 0. ,  0.5,  0.5],
       [ 0.5,  0. ,  0.5],
       [ 0.5,  0.5,  0.5]])
```

</font>


## 5.3. Explicitly listing the k-points
<font color="#73DB90" size="4">

1. If an `n-by-3` or `n-by-4` array is used for `kpts`, this is interpreted as a list of n explicit k-points and `an appropriate KPOINTS file is generated`. 
   - `The fourth column`, if provided, sets the `sample weighting of each point`. 
   - Otherwise, all points are `weighted equally`.
2. <font color="red">Usually in these cases it is desirable to set the `reciprocal` parameter to `True`, so that the k-point vectors are given relative to the reciprocal lattice. Otherwise, they are taken as being in Cartesian space.</font>

</font>


## 5.4. Band structure paths
<font color="#73db90" size="4">

1. VASP provides a `line-mode` for the `generation of band-structure paths`.
2. While this is not directly supported by ASE, relevant functionality exists in the `ase.dft.kpoints` module. For example:
```python
import ase.build
from ase.dft.kpoints import bandpath

si = ase.build.bulk('Si')
kpts, x_coords, x_special_points = bandpath('GXL', si.cell, npoints=20)
```

</font>


## 5.5. Restart old calculation
<font color="#73db90" size="4">

1. To continue an old calculation which has been performed without the interface use the restart parameter when constructing the calculator
```python
calc = Vasp(restart=True)
```
2. Then the calculator will:
   1. `read atomic positions from the CONTCAR file`
   2. `physical quantities from the OUTCAR file`
   3. `k-points from the KPOINTS file`
   4. `parameters from the INCAR file`
3. Only `Monkhorst-Pack` and `Gamma-centered` k-point sampling are supported for restart at the moment. Some INCAR parameters may not be implemented for restart yet. Please report any problems to the ASE mailing list.
4. The restart parameter can be used , as the name suggest to `continue a job from where a previous calculation finished`. Furthermore, it can be used to `extract data from an already performed calculation`. For example, to get the total potential energy of the sodium chloride molecule in the previous section, without performing any additional calculations, in the directory of the previous calculation do:
```python
python> calc = Vasp(restart=True)
python> atoms = calc.get_atoms()
python> print( atoms.get_potential_energy() )
-4.7386889999999999
```

</font>


## 5.6. Storing the calculator state
<font color="#73DB90" size="4">

1. The results from the `Vasp calculator` can exported as a `dictionary`, which can then be saved in a `JSON format`, which enables easy and compressed sharing and storing of the input & outputs of a VASP calculation. The following methods of Vasp can be used for this purpose:

</font>


# 6. Demo
## 6.1. Demo 1: Band Structure
```python
from ase.build import bulk
from ase.calculators.vasp import Vasp


si = bulk("Si")
mydir = "./tmp"

# 1. Self-consistent ground state
calc = Vasp(kpts=(4, 4, 4),
            directory=mydir,
            reciprocal=True,
            )
si.calc = calc
print(si.get_potential_energy())


# 2. Non-SC calculation along band path
kpts = {"path":"WGX",
        'npoints': 30,
        }
calc.set(
        isym=0,
        icharg=11,
        kpts=kpts)

print(si.get_potential_energy())
```

```python
from ase.calculators.vasp import Vasp


mydir = "./tmp"


# load the data of calculated
calc_load = Vasp(directory=mydir,
                restart=True,
                )

bs = calc_load.band_structure()# ASE Band structure object

bs.plot(filename="./tmp/bs.jpg", emin=-13, show=True)
```
Output:
